This repository contains all the code for the friendsoftheplanetarium.org website.
The site uses the Django Python web framework (v. djv1.7rc1 as of 14Mar2016);
a Postgresql database for storing user information, article texts, and event
information; the Apache2 webserver; Django templates coded to the HTML5 specification;
and Python v. 2.7. It is installed in a Debian Linux server. The repository includes
all the backend code, templates, stylesheets, assorted javascript directories
that are included into templates, a database backup, and the Apache2 site
configuration file. Installation is standard and an experienced administrator
should be able to have the site running on a new server in a couple of hours.

INSTALLATION NOTES

Sensitive, install-specific information is imported into settings.py at the end
of that file, from a file called secret_settings.py This includes the database
password, secret Django key, etc., that you will need to regenerate on install
and that should not be visible in a public repository. These bits are marked in
the settings.py file with an obvious comment. There are some hard paths in 
settings.py that will probably need to be changed. Note that the settings
for MEDIA_ROOT and STATIC_ROOT are not actually used, as they are overridden
by the Apache2 settings.

The repository includes the database schema generated by pg_dump.

There is a directory called “Planetscripts” that contains scripts intended to 
be run by cron or the equivalent. They perform a database backup (currently run
every 12 hours) and scripts for generating the daily sun and moon pictures that
currently adorn the front page. These use the “convert” program from ImageMagick.
The script “arksly.py” installs the daily update of the star chart. This is
generated on a laptop every morning, using Stellarium, and uploaded to the server,
using a Stellarium script and this command:

xvfb-run -a --server-args='-screen 0 1024x768x24' /usr/bin/stellarium --fov=190 --landscape=ocean --startup-script=arlsky.ssc && prepare

The scripts “arlsky.ssc” and “prepare” are in the “Stellarium” directory in the
repository. They use “pngnq” as well as ImageMagick. The rationale behind these
scripts and the construction of the starmap is explained in http://lee-phillips.org/skymap/.
Stellarium is not run directly on the server because a recent enough version was found
not to be compatible with the version of Debian installed.

The javascript and CSS files required for the site are included in this repository 
under /static, but the image files there and in /media are stored elsewhere.
The locations of these directories are specified in the Apache2 configuration and
can be anywhere on the filesystem or on another machine. Apache2 is set up to serve
static assets directly, bypassing Django.






